# Dineshika Karunarathna

An accomplished and versatile Full-Stack Software Engineer with two years of dynamic experience in the software industry. As an AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate, I possess robust engineering knowledge and a passion for innovative and analytical problem-solving. Highly adaptable and driven by a commitment to continuous learning and professional growth, I thrive on embracing challenges. Dedicated to delivering exceptional outcomes to the organisation, both individually and collaboratively as part of a team.

## EDUCATION
#### B. Sc. Eng. Hons in Electronic and Telecommunication Engineering
-Oct 2018 - July 2023
-University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
-First Class Division | GPA: 3.83/4.2 (Dean's list - Semesters 1,4,6,7,8)

#### Diploma in Human Resource Management	
-May 2023 – November 2023
-SITC CAMPUS, Sri Lanka	

## WORK EXPERIENCE
### Software Engineer | Axiata Digital Labs (Pvt) Ltd, Sri Lanka
July 2023 – December 2024 
-Used Tech Stack - Java, Spring Boot, JavaScript, React, PostgreSQL, Snowflake, Redis, AWS S3, Jira, GitLab
##### Analytics Downstream
Enhanced customer experience through actionable insights from data model outputs.
•	Developed microservices, REST APIs using Java and Spring Boot, adhering to clean code architecture principles.
•	Designed and implemented cloud-based solutions leveraging AWS S3 and optimised database performance with PostgreSQL and Snowflake.
•	Developed Micro Frontend using JavaScript and ReactJS, creating UI features and front-end logic to enhance user experience and scalability.
•	Managed version control using Git and AWS CodeCommit and monitored application performance with AWS CloudWatch.

##### DialogGPT
A solution developed to deliver answers generated by OpenAI model outputs and manage sessions for internal use by Dialog Axiata employees.
•	Designed and developed REST APIs to facilitate seamless access and session management using Amazon S3, Redis and efficient database operations through PostgreSQL.
•	Front-end feature development using React, implementing required enhancements and resolving bugs to improve user experience.

##### UAT and Data Migration
Migration of the ACRM of a Malaysian telecommunication company, Celcom Digi, from Huawei to Oracle. 
•	Conducted user acceptance testing and managed bugs through Jira, ensuring smooth collaboration between business and development teams. 
•	Gained onsite experience in Malaysia, collaborating closely with the client to achieve project deliverables.

### Visiting Instructor (Part Time)	
Jan 2024 – July 2024
Department of Electronic and Telecommunication Engineering, University of Moratuwa
Visiting Instructor for Security in Cyber-Physical Systems module 


### Trainee Software Engineer | Effective Solutions (Pvt) Ltd, Sri Lanka	
Jan 2022 - June 2022    
Used Tech Stack - PHP, Symfony, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Bitbucket                        
##### Fibre Network Planning and Operations Management System
•	Developed front-end and back-end features using the Symfony framework, including bug fixing.
•	Contributed to the fibre path planning process by implementing and optimising graph algorithms.
•	Comprehensive software documents for the application.

## PROJECTS
Digital Twin Modelling of a Single Traffic Intersection – Undergraduate Project
•	Prediction and virtual representation of traffic in a traffic intersection by training deep learning models of time series which can be used as a reference for researchers in optimising the traffic flow and traffic signals.
•	Vision based identification, counting of vehicles and analysis of traffic flow of CCTV footages using YOLOv7 tiny object detection model. 
Technologies used: Python, MongoDB, OpenCV, NumPy, SUMO, Linux

E-Commerce Platform 
•	E-Commerce API built with Node.js, Express, MongoDB, and Jest for testing. 
•	Includes functionalities for user authentication, product management, and order processing.

Project Management web-based application
•	Project management application with authentication and task allocation features.
•	Hands-on experience in PHP, Symfony, MySQL, HTML and CSS

Combating Covid-19 with IoT Technologies
•	Developed a mobile webpage and Node red dashboard which displays the covid-19 statistics of a given location. 
•	Data is collected from API sources and sent to Arduino via MQTT broker.
Technologies used: Node-red, Arduino, HTML

## SKILLS / TECHNOLOGIES
Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, Python, PHP, MATLAB
Frameworks: Spring Boot, Symfony, React, Node.js
Database Technologies: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Snowflake, Redis
Web Development: HTML, CSS
Version Control: Git, GitLab, GitHub, AWS CodeCommit, Bitbucket
Other Tools: AWS S3, Jira, MS Office

## CERTIFICATIONS, COURSES AND MEMBERSHIPS
•	AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate
•	Core Java Specialization on Coursera
•	Spring Boot 2.0 Essential Training on LinkedIn
•	React.js Essential Training on LinkedIn
•	Deep Learning Specialization on Coursera
•	Language Proficiency: Pearson Test of English (PTE) – Overall Score: 78/90
•	Associate Member of The Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka (IESL) – Membership No: AM-31999	

## VOLUNTEERING ACTIVITIES
Assistant Editor | IEEE Communications Society, University of Moratuwa
Social Media Analyst | Electronic Club, University of Moratuwa
Member of Board of Editors | Electronic Club, University of Moratuwa 
International Relations (IR) Panellist | AIESEC at University of Moratuwa
